Hello delightful God people on Welcome back.
In this video we're going to start adding polish to the game what some people call putting juice into
the game.
I'm going to call.
Awesome.
Our game is pretty much functional It's feature complete.
Everything we need is in there.
Now let's make it awesome.
We're going to put in some set dressing a bunch of background details to mimic the level really pop.
So let's take a look at some of the assets.
And I've just realized that the armature control modes are showing someone to get rid of those.
If you ever get this his aid that go into view and skeleton gizmo visibility I don't want to see any
skeleton bits.
That's good.
So I want to add some extra things in and we've got some assets you can use.
You don't have to use these assets you can make your own assets look under models you'll see a bunch
of things who haven't got.
First off we've got this advert Let's take a look at it.
There's adverts designed to be the kind of ad you might see at a soccer or football match.
So if I change this material See I want to give it a different colour that looks good.
I can't actually see anything here.
And let's give that texture so the graphics got advert albedo and it's there.
Can't see it.
So let's go to flags and make unshaded to see what's going on.
It's just one of these little do hickeys there's no ambient light in this scene.
I'm not quite sure why not.
But that's what that looks like.
If you ever need to look at something without the lighting just temporarily change it's mature like
that.
So I've got one of those and I quite like that.
I must save this material.
We can use the floppy disk and that's looking at what else we got on the model so the advert.
We've got a bunch of toys.
We've got a bear made in the blender course and donated to us by our very own Mark.
The Irresistible jelly so thank you Mark.
And as you look at the Bear I've got to put some materials on them already.
But feel free to change them.
I keep using the wrong.
I've been in blender for a little bit changed Sony's models so I'm using the wrong mouse shortcuts and
keys which is why I'm looking all over the place.
But here we have a little bear.
Just some very simple materials I've put together.
Feel free to change them if you want to use this.
What else we've got.
We've got some blocks silicon you inherited seen.
This is just a cube.
Actually I found a texture remapped for the cube called it blocks study and then use a Kenny texture
to change the material so just put some letters on it so we got some building blocks.
Not in blocks letter blocks where they're called.
And finally this little wagon.
Look at the Agam which currently does not have any materials and it looks like it's the wrong scale
so to do is because to import and under root scale that's change that to 5 in 5 times bigger cycle.
Yes much like change the scenery to wagon and you'll notice there's a bunch of different material.
So let's figure out what's this.
This is the actual wagh ANY some would give that a simple new special material not shader spatial.
There it is and I make that red because it red wagon.
Yes that's not so.
I don't know and I'm on a save that as a red wagon material so save us and I'll put it in the same fold
as you so it's easy to see what's fault what goes with what some toys and a wagon and I call this red
dot material I could call it a t s.
But cleaned up the Makes it easier to see what it's supposed to be and the rest of these I'm thinking
so simple tint colour.
Let's make this a very simple simple thing that simple.
So brand new special material.
Click on the material and this is going to be white but I'm going to give it full metallicity and zura
roughness So that'll be good.
And you know what.
Let's also give the red some to trading in a minute.
Not going to shade them I sure to mention the metal can I.
We can see what looks like to unshaded when we get to the main scene.
But first let's finish texturing this and then we can say that I'm a save the material and what I call
this tin.
OK.
And now women do is I'm sure to load this material into the rest of these objects they're all going
to be 10 so delicious.
So.
All of these open material and drag them in.
I must say this as a scene so in scenes and going to called wagon.
Let's see what it looks like in games so let's have a new node for Holder.
I a call this decal to get name.
I'm just going to incense in the bag and see how it looks in this lighting so let's see scenes where
you got a wagon.
Yeah 10 materials you're really not doing it.
So let's change that.
Let's see tin material.
Do be do shake you to zero point five outlets a little bit better.
And you know it would make you sort of grey.
Zero point seven five.
Maybe a little bit of blue in there.
And while we're at it and so save that for now looks a bit more like 10.
So it looks like a toy.
Save that murgon read material.
Unless two shits are parameters to enchaining and save that now one to run it real quick.
See if that sticks in your notice.
Things are going through because there's no collision here but yeah that's looking good.
So I've made a toy.
Any other toys we can look at before we carry on.
There's the three toys I've given you.
Okay so we've got some basic toys we can use before that happens.
This puts more Decadron specifically this black background is killing limboed right so I've got some
more things to show you.
Second the graphics which is on the graphics and I've found this little background and there's all the
links I give you the beginning and this flawed texture.
So let's start indic or making a new meshes.
This and this is going to be a plane.
Would you go.
Plane.
There you are going to have this immaterial so new material.
New spatial material.
Click on that and bilas can be white.
And this is going to be as you will this the floor.
But the floor texture.
Now I can't see it because it's underneath.
But look there it is awesome and clearly this is going to have to be much bigger than the pitch.
So let's go the save this save.
As I recall this floor material and like go into the mash.
Let's see what's a good size for this.
The pitch is 20 something as now.
So let's say 30 by 30.
And obviously way too high so let's lower.
Now I don't need to put any kind of collision on this.
I'm not going to bother mikkel this floor.
And let's see how it looks from the camera's point of view.
OK so we're going to need to make this bigger floor.
We need you on the x axis to be closer to 40.
K at 50 is looking pretty good okay.
In any actual game because only to see what this looks like in engine it was still cutting to the side
OK.
So let's make you giant as make it 100 by 100 particular size.
But that should do it.
That's a Glock.
There's our floor 100 by 100.
I'm going to put a back wall here.
I'm not too worried about that.
In fact let's put the back all in so out of camera of you because you can't really replace stuff.
And we going to put another plane right here.
So.
New mesh instance listening this one is going to be back wall.
Let's see what's happening with it.
It's a plane and it needs a new material so new special material.
Under bideau.
And I'm a drag in the hipster background nine has a good name hipster background nine.
OK.
Cool save hipster background Nine's material.
I would call this back wall dot material
and let's rotate this so back into the mash and transform you are 90 degrees.
Come back
and let's see I want you back roughly here I guess where is that.
That's negative 12.
Looks good.
And not worry about the height just yet but I am worried about the size of the mash is unchanged in
them the size not the scale.
Let's call you 50 by 50.
How does that look from the camera.
Camera camera camera.
Needs to be there.
Because look at these big gaps here.
So back wall.
Mesh.
And let's do another hundred by 100.
Much more like it.
I get Pressplay.
We could probably close to the pitch you couldn't play with the angle but we're starting to get here.
Now what I've got here is a little floor was like a kitchen floor and a slightly dusty back wall.
The texture is actually looking a little bit too close isn't it.
So can I make that smaller.
Can I get away with that.
About 75.
It's a high def texture but you know there's only so much you can do.
In fact I don't need it that high do I.
It's looking a little better.
Now one of the do them put another mesh here a box that's going to be a ledge.
What do you call them a runner.
I've got what I call a skirting board.
That's the bunny.
I think it's called a skirting board not called a bunny.
Another meche instance whatever it's called.
And this was going to be a box.
So cube.
Yeah.
And out of camp a pretty remote so I can see what I'm doing.
I was going to move you to here and movie up a little bit.
There we go.
All right.
Now this one I don't mind scaling because the material on it give it is going to be just a simple albedo
colour so let's go into the material and give this a nice sort of Terra Cotta Guy.
And you know what let's to shade this nice.
Okay save this skirting board material
and put a capital there and let's see.
Easiest thing to do is colour scale it's a press article a scale mode.
And there we go.
Perfect.
How you look.
Such to shading was the wrong call so let's not to show it because we weren't able to see the shadows
of the angle the lights that's not cutting any shadows but that's looking a little better.
I could go right up to the edge there what that look like.
Less realistic.
Pretty decent.
Okay.
So this is starting to look like an actual environment.
Right.
We've got a lot of tension going on and that's cool.
All the floor look like tin shaded.
Let's take a look.
Floor material turns shading.
A little too bright.
I'm not going to initiate that.
Let's make it a although only two shading the actual pieces we are using.
OK so here we have our little scene and when I move my wagon over to the left here so let's take the
wagon where the wagon come back that I'm not caught.
Oh let's name things skirting board.
And wagon going to just move you here for now.
See you over to the side is the last little detail and you know what let's scale it up even more.
So scale he says five.
You look like 10.
And let's get back into that material.
So where is that as under toys wagon tin material.
Now I want this to be more reflective and to do that I should probably change that default environment
going to environment.
And when I play with a few more options here let's switch on SS reflections we've got a little bit of
reflectivity that's looking a lot more like metal.
So I like that.
I don't wanna play with auto exposure because it's already bright enough.
I could play with tone map but again it's plenty bright.
I don't want any glow.
I actually don't.
But if you want glow that's we'd find it all the different things you can find.
So I've put in some reflection I can raise the reflection a bit if I like another that material doesn't
need to be quite so blue.
So let's make it a little closer to white about that they're nice and it'll actually reflect so if I
move the wagons over here you could see it reflected the pitch.
There's the player so we can put this in a good angle and actually get some details in.
That looks pretty dramatic when the ball comes in there a little reflection rotating.
And let's just move you off pitch slightly.
How do you look.
Coming along OK.
So now here's my challenge.
I'd like you to decorate your game set dressing add the background details you want play with the toys
have given mess of the materials put in tune shading change the reflection whatever you want but give
an awesome background or lots of little details.
For Cupid kickabout.
If you've got some extra models lying around if you've been playing blender or you've found something
cool that you're allowed to use that you want to use.
Put it in the game.
Let's see what you can make.
So pause the video go crazy with the decoration scales and when you back when you're ready come back
and I'll show you my level.
Right Welcome back.
I was about to show you my finished thing but I realize that there's been a bit of an export problem.
Look we have lamps in with this cube which is a bit annoying.
So one of the do is I'm going to take the actual mesh of the cube and on the export VAT to sort of do
is just go save branch a scene and call vaccine.
BLOCK coop.
Now this look what I've built.
And welcome back.
And here's what I've made.
So I've had to do a few tweaks.
First off I start with the arm wygant the whack a little bit smaller because it was taking up the entire
left hand side of the screen.
So I got here and holding box I spell out the word love because that's all you need.
Here's my advert.
I brought the advert in.
I made the advert a little bit bigger and I had to turn off the reflectivity of it because it was just
it was reflecting too much.
I couldn't read it.
So let's take a look what I did fail as go in to advert so all I did was I.
Scroll down to a metallic and undid that so it was at one now at zero and you know what.
If you aren't using a lot of 2mb shading make sure you're the roughnesses at one that is really flat
low.
Looks really good.
The bear didn't change the materials at all.
The block didn't change the material at all and that actually really happy with Couple things I will
do.
I to make the materials for the back wall and the floor flat as well.
I didn't check those that I.
So let's go into those roughness.
Yeah I see one just gives it a much more well cartoony artificial self made it feel it's not actually
sleeping in the floor.
But with these little drawn in textures it seems to fit for me so I like it and that's looking.
Oh I forgot a thing.
Oh I made a new texel Within didn't talk about it probably seen already but let's go back to graphics.
I made this very professional looking painting thing here which if you want to make one like that you
can make your own wood if you want to use this high quality artwork I've made.
By all means do so.
A mash instance Europe plane and movie ups I can see the texture or new new material you special.
The Albino is going to have this lovely texture on it.
There it is.
Look at that and save that as painting materials.
I can go under graphics I guess because it doesn't actually exist anywhere else.
Picture dot material there it is.
And let's just move that around a bit sir.
Like so collings on so you can't see the back of it.
But that's better.
OK now get onto a transforms you are minus 90 on the x most much on why most out on the set that's easy
and let's make it bigger.
So let's see I want 6 on the X and 9 on the why I think that's roughly the right proportion.
Almost 7 on the X even 8 7 6 7 7 9 very Star Trek Voyager.
OK.
Let me wager.
I think I do.
I get my Star Trek's confused.
You don't get your Star Trek confused.
Why don't you take them in the comments.
I mean can I.
I've got gritz napping on why.
There we go.
This one I want to get as close to there as possible without going through because I don't want the
shadow in.
And that may be there.
Is to be a little bit lower doesn't it.
That's put on this side.
Get away from the bear.
Which is good advice when you play in any kind of sport.
Fantastic.
So that can be achcha.
Which brings us to the end of the video in this video with enhanced player experience with background
details.
Or if you prefer adding the awesome bringing the juice making the game ganey not game either means tough
to eat anyway.
How did you do it how.
How's your level that kind of details you bring in.
Did you make extra stuff or find extra stuff.
What kind of materials use.
Share with us.
I'm dying to find out and be really cool to see all the different games of Cube do kick about that can
come about.
So excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.